---
layout: post
title:  Monthly Release November 2024
author: "Olaf Bánki"
excerpt: Monthly release November 2024 of the Catalogue of Life
categories: Release
---

Permanent identifier: [https://doi.org/10.48580/dgjx3](https://doi.org/10.48580/dgjx3)

Catalogue of Life (CoL) is an assembly of expert-based global species checklists with the aim to build a comprehensive catalogue of all known species of organisms on Earth. As a global consortium, we aim to address the needs of researchers, policy-makers, environmental managers and the wider public for a consistent and up-to-date listing of all the world’s known species. We are happy to announce that we have just published the Catalogue of Life November 2024 online!

The Catalogue of Life contains about 2,19 million accepted species. About 2,04 million are living species, and the rest are extinct. A large community of taxonomists, over 500 experts globally, representing 165 data sources is underpinning this global species list.
Although the CoL aspires to cover all described extant species, there are still deficiencies for particular taxonomic groups.

A [detailed list of source changes can be found in ChecklistBank](https://www.checklistbank.org/dataset/305197/sourcemetrics?hideUnchanged=true&releaseKey=304708) where you can also view changes between other releases.

### What's new in the November 2024 edition?

#### New global checklist:
 * AntBase replaced family Formicidae from ITIS.

#### 87 checklists updated:

 * 3i Auchenorrhyncha
 * Entiminae
 * GLI
 * ITIS
 * Pterophoroidea
 * Scarabs
 * Sesiidae
 * SF Aphid
 * SF Chrysididae
 * SF Coreoidea
 * SF Dermaptera
 * SF Embioptera
 * SF Isoptera
 * SF Lygaeoidea
 * SF Mantodea
 * SF Orthoptera
 * SF Phasmida
 * SF Plecoptera
 * SF Psocodea
 * WCO
 * WOL
 * World Ferns
 * WoRMS, 65 checklists

#### Other changes:
 * WFO Pinopsida of 2024-06, Asteraceae and Lamiales from World Plants ver. 24.9 of Sep 2024, Rhopalosomatidae from HymIS Crabronidae & Rhopalosomatidae of Jul 2017 were re-synced.
 * MOWD database is retired now; family Membracidae is taken from 3i Auchenorrhyncha.
