---
layout: post
title:  Monthly Release May 2024
author: "Olaf Bánki"
excerpt: Monthly release May 2024 of the Catalogue of Life
categories: release
---

Permanent identifier: [https://doi.org/10.48580/dg6lk](https://doi.org/10.48580/dg6lk)

Catalogue of Life (COL) is an assembly of expert-based global species checklists with the aim to build a comprehensive catalogue of all known species of organisms on Earth. 
As a global consortium, we aim to address the needs of researchers, policy-makers, environmental managers and the wider public for a consistent and up-to-date listing of all the world’s known species. 
We are happy to announce that we have just published the Catalogue of Life May 2024 online!

The Catalogue of Life contains about 2,17 million accepted species. About 2,02 million are living species, and the rest are extinct. A large community of taxonomists, over 500 experts globally, representing 164 data sources is underpinning this global species list.
Although the COL aspires to cover all described extant species, there are still deficiencies for particular taxonomic groups.

A [detailed list of source changes can be found in ChecklistBank](https://www.checklistbank.org/dataset/296511/sourcemetrics?hideUnchanged=true&releaseKey=294826) where you can also view changes between other releases.

### What's new in the May 2024 edition?

#### 96 checklists updated:

 * 3i Auchenorrhyncha
 * Alucitoidea (Lepidoptera)
 * Bryonames
 * CunaxidBase is separated from BdelloideaBase in this release
 * Entiminae
 * Gelechiidae (Lepidoptera)
 * Geometridae (Lepidoptera)
 * GLI (Lepidoptera)
 * Global Gracillariidae (Lepidoptera)
 * Hepialidae (Lepidoptera)
 * ITIS
 * Pterophoroidea (Lepidoptera)
 * Scarabs
 * SF Aphid
 * SF Chrysididae
 * SF Coreoidea
 * SF Dermaptera
 * SF Embioptera
 * SF Isoptera
 * SF Lygaeoidea
 * SF Mantodea
 * SF Orthoptera
 * SF Phasmida
 * SF Plecoptera
 * SF Psocodea
 * Species Fungorum Plus
 * The Scorpion Files
 * TITAN
 * UCD
 * WCO (Opiliones)
 * WOL (Odonata)
 * WoRMS, 65 checklists
